skills/context-sculpting/workflow/audit-context.md, before:

# Workflow: Audit Context

> **Purpose:** Comprehensive context health review using parallel agent analysis to identify gaps, inconsistencies, and refinement opportunities.
>
> **Use when:** Periodic maintenance, before major decisions, after business changes, messaging refinement, or user requests health check.

---

## Prerequisites

**Load these files BEFORE starting:**

1. `knowledge/context-architecture.md` - The source of truth for expected structure
2. All context documents in the system (for subagent distribution)

---

## Workflow Overview

This workflow uses **3 parallel subagents** to analyze the context system from different perspectives, then synthesizes findings into prioritized recommendations.

```
Phase 1: Structural Health Check (orchestrator)
    ↓
Phase 2: Multi-Agent Deep Analysis (3 parallel subagents)
    ↓
Phase 3: Synthesis & Prioritization (orchestrator)
    ↓
Phase 4: Implementation (orchestrator, with user approval)
```

---

## Phase 1: Structural Health Check

*Performed by the orchestrating agent before launching subagents.*

### Step 1.1: Inventory Actual Files

Discover all files currently in the context system.

**Run:**
```bash
find context -name "*.md" -not -path "*/.archive/*"
```

Or use Glob to find all markdown files in context folders.

### Step 1.2: Compare to Architecture Map

Compare actual files against `knowledge/context-architecture.md`.

**Check for:**

| Issue | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| **Missing files** | Documented in architecture but file doesn't exist |
| **Undocumented files** | File exists but not in architecture map |
| **Wrong location** | File in different folder than documented |
| **Naming issues** | Filename doesn't match conventions |

### Step 1.3: Verify Cross-Links

1. Find all relative links:
```bash
grep -r --exclude-dir=.archive "](../" context/ | grep ".md)"
```

2. For each link found, verify the target exists in the Step 1.1 inventory.

3. Report any links where target file is not found.

**Also check for orphan documents** - files with no incoming links from other documents.

### Step 1.4: Fix Critical Structural Issues

Before proceeding to deep analysis, immediately fix:
- Broken links (update or remove)
- Architecture map mismatches (sync with reality)
- Missing required sections in documents

**Document fixes made** for the audit report.

---

## Phase 2: Multi-Agent Deep Analysis

*Launch 3 parallel subagents with identical instructions to get independent perspectives.*

### Why 3 Identical Agents?

- **Independent analysis** - Each agent reviews without knowing what others found
- **Overlap = signal** - When 2-3 agents flag the same issue independently, it's high priority
- **Scalable instructions** - No need to update prompts as content changes

### Subagent Prompt

Use the Task tool to launch 3 agents. Each receives the same prompt:

```markdown
## Context System Audit

You are one of 3 independent agents reviewing the business context system. Your goal is to identify the most impactful opportunities for improvement.

### Your Task

1. Read ALL context documents listed below
2. Analyze for any issues: gaps, inconsistencies, unclear messaging, structural problems, misalignment between documents
3. Return your TOP 3 findings, prioritized by impact
4. Be specific and actionable

### Documents to Review

[List all context document paths from Step 1.1]

### What to Look For

- **Consistency** - Do documents align with each other? Are facts stated the same way?
- **Clarity** - Is messaging clear and concrete? Would a reader understand what we do and why?
- **Completeness** - Are there gaps, thin sections, or unresolved questions?
- **Coherence** - Is information in the right place? Is cross-referencing effective?
- **Quality** - Is the writing sharp? Are value props differentiated? Does the problem resonate?

### Output Format

Return exactly 3 findings in this format:

#### Finding 1: [Title]
- **File:** [exact file path]
- **Section:** [section name]
- **Current Text:** "[quote the problematic text]"
- **Problem:** [what's wrong and why it matters]
- **Recommendation:** "[specific suggested fix or action]"

#### Finding 2: [Title]
[Same format]

#### Finding 3: [Title]
[Same format]

### Final Assessment
[2-3 sentence overall assessment of context health]
```

### Launching Subagents

**CRITICAL:** Launch all 3 subagents in a single message using parallel Task tool calls.

```
[Task tool call 1: Context Audit Agent A]
[Task tool call 2: Context Audit Agent B]
[Task tool call 3: Context Audit Agent C]
```

Wait for all 3 agents to complete before proceeding to synthesis.

---

## Phase 3: Synthesis & Prioritization

*Orchestrator aggregates findings and creates prioritized recommendations.*

### Step 3.1: Collect All Findings

Compile all 9 findings (3 from each agent) into a single list.

### Step 3.2: Identify Overlaps

**High-signal issues:** When 2+ agents independently flag the same issue, it's a strong signal.

| Overlap Pattern | Priority |
|-----------------|----------|
| All 3 agents flag same issue | Critical - address first |
| 2 agents flag same issue | High - likely real problem |
| Single agent flags issue | Normal - evaluate on merits |

### Step 3.3: Create Priority Matrix

Score each finding:

| Criteria | Weight | Scale |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Impact on user understanding | 40% | 1-5 |
| Number of agents flagging | 30% | 1-3 |
| Effort to fix | 30% | 1-5 (inverse: 5=easy) |

### Step 3.4: Generate Recommendations Summary

Present to user in this format:

```markdown
## Audit Findings Summary

**Structural Issues Fixed:** [N items]
**Deep Analysis Findings:** [N items from 9 total]

### Priority 1: [Title]
- **Flagged by:** Agent(s) [1/2/3]
- **Impact:** [High/Medium/Low]
- **Effort:** [Low/Medium/High]
- **Summary:** [1-2 sentences]
- **Action:** [Specific change to make]

### Priority 2: [Title]
[Same format]

[Continue for all actionable findings]

### Findings Requiring Discussion
[Any items that need user input before action]

---

**Recommended implementation order:** [List priority numbers]

Approve implementation? [Y/N/Modify]
```

---

## Phase 4: Implementation

*Execute approved changes with proper versioning.*

### Step 4.1: Get User Approval

**Do NOT proceed without explicit user approval.**

Present the prioritized list and wait for:
- Approval of all items
- Approval of subset
- Modifications to recommendations
- Request for clarification

### Step 4.2: Implement in Priority Order

For each approved change:

1. **Make the edit** to the target file
2. **Update metadata:**
   - Increment version (minor for refinements)
   - Update Modified date
   - Add Change History entry
3. **Check cascade effects:**
   - Does this change affect other documents?
   - Are cross-links still accurate?
   - Does architecture map need updating?
4. **Update related documents** if needed

### Step 4.3: Update Architecture Map

After all changes:

1. Update `knowledge/context-architecture.md`:
   - Last Updated table
   - Any structural changes
   - Open Questions section (resolved/new)
2. Verify all cross-references are current

### Step 4.4: Generate Final Audit Report

```markdown
## Context Audit Report

**Date:** [Date]
**Auditor:** Claude (orchestrator + 3 subagents)

### Phase 1: Structural Health
- Files inventoried: [N]
- Architecture mismatches fixed: [N]
- Broken links fixed: [N]

### Phase 2: Deep Analysis
- Findings from Agent A: [N]
- Findings from Agent B: [N]
- Findings from Agent C: [N]
- Overlapping findings: [N]

### Phase 3: Prioritization
- Critical issues: [N]
- High priority: [N]
- Medium priority: [N]
- Deferred/discussed: [N]

### Phase 4: Implementation
- Changes implemented: [N]
- Documents updated: [list]
- Version increments: [list]

### Remaining Open Items
- [Any items deferred or requiring future action]

### Next Audit
- Recommended: [Date based on audit frequency]
- Focus areas: [Based on patterns found]
```

Commit message:

Update README and templates to reflect new folder structure; rename 'context/' to 'context-template/' and add 'context-example/' for realistic examples. Adjust instructions for copying templates and clarify usage of different folder names in documentation.

skills/context-sculpting/workflow/audit-context.md, after:

# Workflow: Audit Context

> **Purpose:** Comprehensive context health review using parallel agent analysis to identify gaps, inconsistencies, and refinement opportunities.
>
> **Use when:** Periodic maintenance, before major decisions, after business changes, messaging refinement, or user requests health check.

---

## Prerequisites

**Load these files BEFORE starting:**

1. `knowledge/context-architecture.md` - The source of truth for expected structure
2. All context documents in the system (for subagent distribution)

---

## Workflow Overview

This workflow uses **3 parallel subagents** to analyze the context system from different perspectives, then synthesizes findings into prioritized recommendations.

```
Phase 1: Structural Health Check (orchestrator)
    ↓
Phase 2: Multi-Agent Deep Analysis (3 parallel subagents)
    ↓
Phase 3: Synthesis & Prioritization (orchestrator)
    ↓
Phase 4: Implementation (orchestrator, with user approval)
```

---

## Phase 1: Structural Health Check

*Performed by the orchestrating agent before launching subagents.*

### Step 1.1: Inventory Actual Files

Discover all files currently in the context system.

**Run:**
```bash
find context -name "*.md" -not -path "*/.archive/*"
# Or if using a different folder name:
# find context-template -name "*.md" -not -path "*/.archive/*"
# find context-example -name "*.md" -not -path "*/.archive/*"
```

Or use Glob to find all markdown files in context folders. **Note:** The folder name may be `context/`, `context-template/`, `context-example/`, or a custom path - adjust commands accordingly.

### Step 1.2: Compare to Architecture Map

Compare actual files against `knowledge/context-architecture.md`.

**Check for:**

| Issue | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| **Missing files** | Documented in architecture but file doesn't exist |
| **Undocumented files** | File exists but not in architecture map |
| **Wrong location** | File in different folder than documented |
| **Naming issues** | Filename doesn't match conventions |

### Step 1.3: Verify Cross-Links

1. Find all relative links:
```bash
grep -r --exclude-dir=.archive "](../" context/ | grep ".md)"
# Or if using a different folder name:
# grep -r --exclude-dir=.archive "](../" context-template/ | grep ".md)"
# grep -r --exclude-dir=.archive "](../" context-example/ | grep ".md)"
```

**Note:** Adjust the folder name (`context/`, `context-template/`, `context-example/`, or your custom path) to match your project structure.

2. For each link found, verify the target exists in the Step 1.1 inventory.

3. Report any links where target file is not found.

**Also check for orphan documents** - files with no incoming links from other documents.

### Step 1.4: Fix Critical Structural Issues

Before proceeding to deep analysis, immediately fix:
- Broken links (update or remove)
- Architecture map mismatches (sync with reality)
- Missing required sections in documents

**Document fixes made** for the audit report.

---

## Phase 2: Multi-Agent Deep Analysis

*Launch 3 parallel subagents with identical instructions to get independent perspectives.*

### Why 3 Identical Agents?

- **Independent analysis** - Each agent reviews without knowing what others found
- **Overlap = signal** - When 2-3 agents flag the same issue independently, it's high priority
- **Scalable instructions** - No need to update prompts as content changes

### Subagent Prompt

Use the Task tool to launch 3 agents. Each receives the same prompt:

```markdown
## Context System Audit

You are one of 3 independent agents reviewing the business context system. Your goal is to identify the most impactful opportunities for improvement.

### Your Task

1. Read ALL context documents listed below
2. Analyze for any issues: gaps, inconsistencies, unclear messaging, structural problems, misalignment between documents
3. Return your TOP 3 findings, prioritized by impact
4. Be specific and actionable

### Documents to Review

[List all context document paths from Step 1.1]

### What to Look For

- **Consistency** - Do documents align with each other? Are facts stated the same way?
- **Clarity** - Is messaging clear and concrete? Would a reader understand what we do and why?
- **Completeness** - Are there gaps, thin sections, or unresolved questions?
- **Coherence** - Is information in the right place? Is cross-referencing effective?
- **Quality** - Is the writing sharp? Are value props differentiated? Does the problem resonate?

### Output Format

Return exactly 3 findings in this format:

#### Finding 1: [Title]
- **File:** [exact file path]
- **Section:** [section name]
- **Current Text:** "[quote the problematic text]"
- **Problem:** [what's wrong and why it matters]
- **Recommendation:** "[specific suggested fix or action]"

#### Finding 2: [Title]
[Same format]

#### Finding 3: [Title]
[Same format]

### Final Assessment
[2-3 sentence overall assessment of context health]
```

### Launching Subagents

**CRITICAL:** Launch all 3 subagents in a single message using parallel Task tool calls.

```
[Task tool call 1: Context Audit Agent A]
[Task tool call 2: Context Audit Agent B]
[Task tool call 3: Context Audit Agent C]
```

Wait for all 3 agents to complete before proceeding to synthesis.

---

## Phase 3: Synthesis & Prioritization

*Orchestrator aggregates findings and creates prioritized recommendations.*

### Step 3.1: Collect All Findings

Compile all 9 findings (3 from each agent) into a single list.

### Step 3.2: Identify Overlaps

**High-signal issues:** When 2+ agents independently flag the same issue, it's a strong signal.

| Overlap Pattern | Priority |
|-----------------|----------|
| All 3 agents flag same issue | Critical - address first |
| 2 agents flag same issue | High - likely real problem |
| Single agent flags issue | Normal - evaluate on merits |

### Step 3.3: Create Priority Matrix

Score each finding:

| Criteria | Weight | Scale |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Impact on user understanding | 40% | 1-5 |
| Number of agents flagging | 30% | 1-3 |
| Effort to fix | 30% | 1-5 (inverse: 5=easy) |

### Step 3.4: Generate Recommendations Summary

Present to user in this format:

```markdown
## Audit Findings Summary

**Structural Issues Fixed:** [N items]
**Deep Analysis Findings:** [N items from 9 total]

### Priority 1: [Title]
- **Flagged by:** Agent(s) [1/2/3]
- **Impact:** [High/Medium/Low]
- **Effort:** [Low/Medium/High]
- **Summary:** [1-2 sentences]
- **Action:** [Specific change to make]

### Priority 2: [Title]
[Same format]

[Continue for all actionable findings]

### Findings Requiring Discussion
[Any items that need user input before action]

---

**Recommended implementation order:** [List priority numbers]

Approve implementation? [Y/N/Modify]
```

---

## Phase 4: Implementation

*Execute approved changes with proper versioning.*

### Step 4.1: Get User Approval

**Do NOT proceed without explicit user approval.**

Present the prioritized list and wait for:
- Approval of all items
- Approval of subset
- Modifications to recommendations
- Request for clarification

### Step 4.2: Implement in Priority Order

For each approved change:

1. **Make the edit** to the target file
2. **Update metadata:**
   - Increment version (minor for refinements)
   - Update Modified date
   - Add Change History entry
3. **Check cascade effects:**
   - Does this change affect other documents?
   - Are cross-links still accurate?
   - Does architecture map need updating?
4. **Update related documents** if needed

### Step 4.3: Update Architecture Map

After all changes:

1. Update `knowledge/context-architecture.md`:
   - Last Updated table
   - Any structural changes
   - Open Questions section (resolved/new)
2. Verify all cross-references are current

### Step 4.4: Generate Final Audit Report

```markdown
## Context Audit Report

**Date:** [Date]
**Auditor:** Claude (orchestrator + 3 subagents)

### Phase 1: Structural Health
- Files inventoried: [N]
- Architecture mismatches fixed: [N]
- Broken links fixed: [N]

### Phase 2: Deep Analysis
- Findings from Agent A: [N]
- Findings from Agent B: [N]
- Findings from Agent C: [N]
- Overlapping findings: [N]

### Phase 3: Prioritization
- Critical issues: [N]
- High priority: [N]
- Medium priority: [N]
- Deferred/discussed: [N]

### Phase 4: Implementation
- Changes implemented: [N]
- Documents updated: [list]
- Version increments: [list]

### Remaining Open Items
- [Any items deferred or requiring future action]

### Next Audit
- Recommended: [Date based on audit frequency]
- Focus areas: [Based on patterns found]
```
